Remaining Capital after Expenses
================================
![Remaining Capital after Expenses](figure_2.png)

Three subgraphs are displayed to provide an overview of savings actuals and
targets. The left-most subgraph shows profit and loss over the past 11
completed months, and the two right-most graphs concern income and savings
targets for the current month. The top-right subgraph has two ticks showing two
values: projected and actual values for margin and income. Margin here is used
to mean `Income - Expenses`. The bottom-right subgraph again has two ticks
showing two values: projected and actual weekly and daily spending allowance to
avoid overspending.

Breaking down the top-right subgraph, the 'Earnt Margin' value is negative,
indicating that expenses have so-far exceeded income. However the 'Projected
Margin' value is still positive, which means the graph anticipates that there
will be another income payment inside the month. Looking at the 'Projected
Income' bar we see that it well outstrips the 'Earnt Income' bar, corroborating
the 'Margin' values. Given we know we've earnt $2974 but the margin is $-2435,
our expenses so far must be `2974 + (-1 * -2435) = 5409`. Given a 'Projected
Income' value of $6042, it's anticipated that the remaining income payment will
be $3069 dollars, which will lead to a 'Projected Margin' of `6042 - 5049` or
~$632 ($1 rounding error).

Breaking down the bottom-right subgraph, the bar values are scaled to the days
left. Daily and weekly values for 'Earnt Income' will be zero if your 'Earnt
Margin' is zero or negative, as there is no spending allowance that will allow you
to spend less than you've earnt if you've already spent more than you've earnt.
The only way to rectify this is to be paid again inside the month and to be
paid more than your current (negative) margin.

[back to README](../README.md)
